Add news post regarding terms of service change (#4495)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2020-11-19-better-protecting-players-from-abuse.md

---
layout: post
title: "Better protecting players from abuse"
date: 2020-11-19 09:00:00 +0000
---

> 

Reviewer: header image missing, probably need to bother flyte for one or use a generic from /wiki/shared/news/banners

Author: Pretty sure it'll just fallback to a generic one (see https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2016-10-15-gmt-applications-now-open as an example), unless you have a more appropriate suggestion.

Reviewer: i suppose that one will do

Hi everyone, peppy here.

osu! to me has always been about freedom of speech and action. I've always strived to continue running the service with the minimum possible level of moderation, intervention and imposition on the players and the team.

> In the last week, we have had some players come forward and describe events that happened between themselves and prominent community members (often in voluntary team positions like the Global Moderators or Beatmap Approval Team) which can objectively defined as "wrong" from a moral standpoint, involving inappropriate exchanges where one party is under the age of 18.

Reviewer 2: missing "be" here between can and objectively (or after objectively)

> In the last week, we have had some players come forward and describe events that happened between themselves and prominent community members (often in voluntary team positions like the Global Moderators or Beatmap Approval Team) which can objectively be defined as "wrong" from a moral standpoint, involving inappropriate exchanges where one party is under the age of 18.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the last week, we have had some players come forward and describe events that happened between themselves and prominent community members (often in voluntary team positions like the Global Moderators or Beatmap Nominators) which can objectively be defined as "wrong" from a moral standpoint, involving inappropriate exchanges where one party is under the age of 18.
```

Author: hmm, it was actually from an era when they were called BAT (yeah, that long ago)

Reviewer: one case involves BAT era stuff so yeah, this doesn't need renaming, no cases handled recently involve beatmap nominators iirc

> An important detail is that while multiple reports arrived in the last week, the events described occurred years ago. This shows that the users either did not feel it was necessary to report, or did not feel comfortable with reporting at the time it occurred.

Reviewer: this segment reads a bit like you're blaming the victims for "did not feel it was necessary to report"

often times abuse is reviewed in hindsight or when experiences are shared between people, many often think what they're going through is perfectly normal at the time and don't discover the issue until later on.

would just omit this whole sentence or reshape it entirely to state that despite the reports detailing acts that happened years ago, we still acted on them because it was the right thing to do, and that others should seek to do the same if they find themselves in similar situations

Author: this is literally here to explain why we are changing things. it needs to be explained to give context. if you feel like this is somehow placing blame, please reword in a way you believe doesn't.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An important detail is that while multiple reports arrived in the last week, the events described occurred years ago. This highlights the grave inadequacies in our internal policies and failings of our culture to catch this kind of behavior, something that we are now striving to address while still keeping our core values in tact.
```

something like this?

Author: how's this:

```suggestion
An important detail is that while multiple reports arrived in the last week, some events described occurred up to 9 years ago. The fact we are only learning about this now may be due to our lack of policy on when to report, how to handle and the limits of what is acceptable behaviour in the osu! community.
```

Reviewer: much better!

In the past I have been of the mindset that such cases should be reported to local authorities as it is not our responsibility to enforce social standards on our users, but in light of the recent reports, and after some very thorough discussion, we are changing how we handle these cases with the following reasoning:

- Local authorities may not be willing or able to act depending on the country or situation at hand.
- As we have seen, the same individual may be targeting more than one person in the community. Investigating and acting on reports early may prevent further people from becoming involved and potentially hurt.

> The changes we are making are visible in the updated [Rules](https://osu.ppy.sh/help/wiki/Rules) [Terms of Service](https://osu.ppy.sh/legal/terms) ([diff](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/4482/files)), but as a summary:

Reviewer 2: missing comma or "and" here between Rules and ToS links?

> - Members of teams are upheld to the Contributor Code of Conduct, setting an industry standard level of expected behaviour they should hold themselves up to as a trustable member of the community.

Reviewer 2: Should there be a link here for the contributor coc?

- All members of moderation teams (who regularly have to view and act on reports of 18+ content) are required to be at least 18 years old. This will apply to and be verified for all new incoming members. This does not apply to Beatmap Nominators or other teams where moderation is not involved.
- A [new page](https://osu.ppy.sh/help/wiki/Reporting_Bad_Behaviour/Abuse) and process has been added for reporting abuse cases. These cases will only be seen by two people and treated in a confidential manner. We will do our best to offer advice and take action where appropriate, in a timely manner. We hope this will make it easier to report abuse when it happens, rather than years later (or potentially never).

> - A new rule was added disallowing sexual imagery, flirting and intimacy in public and private discussion channels on osu! systems

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- A new rule was added disallowing sexual imagery, flirting and intimacy in public and private discussion channels on osu! systems.
```
